Add lesson on working with Copilot (#3)
Ada-Developers-Academy/independent-ai-topics: working-w-copilot/copilot-interface-shortcuts.md

# Copilot Interface & Shortcuts

## Goals

> We won't cover all of Copilot's capabilities and shortcuts in this lesson, but we want to share the ones that we think developers will use most when getting started. For more in-depth information check out GitHub's documentation on ["Configuring GitHub Copilot in your environment"](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/configuring-github-copilot/configuring-github-copilot-in-your-environment?tool=vscode) or ["Getting started with GitHub Copilot"](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/using-github-copilot/getting-started-with-github-copilot#seeing-alternative-suggestions-2)

Reviewer: - rephrased so that "we" is inclusive rather than refering to authors
```suggestion
While we won't cover all of Copilot's capabilities and shortcuts in this lesson, we will take a look at the ones developers tend to use most when getting started. For more in-depth information check out GitHub's documentation on ["Configuring GitHub Copilot in your environment"](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/configuring-github-copilot/configuring-github-copilot-in-your-environment?tool=vscode) or ["Getting started with GitHub Copilot"](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/using-github-copilot/getting-started-with-github-copilot#seeing-alternative-suggestions-2)
```

Our goals for this lesson are to:
- Show multiple ways to prompt Copilot for suggestions
- Review helpful commands and shortcuts
- Generate our first suggestions

## Getting Suggestions

There are several ways we can prompt Copilot to start writing code. Feel free to open up a blank Python file to try these out as we go. It can be helpful to experiment and learn how you prefer to get suggestions from Copilot!

### !callout-info

## Trying the same prompts will generate different results

> Copilot may give drastically different responses for the same prompts, just as we saw with other LLM tools like ChatGPT. There is no need to be concerned if you are following along and code Copilot suggest code that looks nothing like our examples. This is okay and expected! 

Reviewer: - typo
```suggestion
Copilot may give drastically different responses for the same prompts, just as we saw with other LLM tools like ChatGPT. There is no need to be concerned if you are following along and code Copilot suggests code that looks nothing like our examples. This is okay and expected! 
```

### !end-callout

### Starting with code

When we start typing a function definition in a code file with Copilot activated, Copilot will jump in and suggest the contents of the function in grey text. Let's type the following function definition into a Python file to see what happens:
```py
def convert_f_to_c(temp):
```
Copilot will suggest the body `return (temp - 32) * 5 / 9`, which in this case is exactly what we wanted. We can use `Tab` to accept the presented code, which moves it from a greyed-out suggestion to code in the file that we can navigate and edit.  

![The function definition "def convert_f_to_c(temp):" with a greyed out suggestion from Copilot that reads "return (temp - 32) * 5 / 9"](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/copilot-temperature-example.png)  
*Fig. A function definition we wrote, with a suggestion from Copilot in grey below*  

### Using a comment as a prompt

> We can also use natural language to describe the function we want in a comment and Copilot will suggest code to meet those requirements. In this case, the more information we include, the more likely that Copilot will be able to respond with what we're looking for. For example, if we know that we'll be sorting inputs and want to use a particular algorithm, we should mention that in our comment. If we don't, Copilot will make a best guess at what we want and may choose a slower or otherwise less optimal algorithm.

Reviewer: Really not sure why, but this struck me as odd. I think there are two options:
1. add "it is" (first suggestion)
2. remove "that" (second suggestion)

Personally, I prefer option 1.
```suggestion
We can also use natural language to describe the function we want in a comment and Copilot will suggest code to meet those requirements. In this case, the more information we include, the more likely it is that Copilot will be able to respond with what we're looking for. For example, if we know that we'll be sorting inputs and want to use a particular algorithm, we should mention that in our comment. If we don't, Copilot will make a best guess at what we want and may choose a slower or otherwise less optimal algorithm.
```

```suggestion
We can also use natural language to describe the function we want in a comment and Copilot will suggest code to meet those requirements. In this case, the more information we include, the more likely Copilot will be able to respond with what we're looking for. For example, if we know that we'll be sorting inputs and want to use a particular algorithm, we should mention that in our comment. If we don't, Copilot will make a best guess at what we want and may choose a slower or otherwise less optimal algorithm.
```

![A comment in a Python file describing a function where Copilot has added an example input and output to the comment](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/copilot-comment-prompt-example-completed.png.png)  
*Fig. An example input and output suggested by Copilot*

If we create yet one more new line, that is when copilot realizes we aren't trying to add any further description and provides us with a function definition. Once we press `Tab` to accept the function definition suggested, Copilot will suggest an implementation for the function. 

![A comment in a Python file describing a function where Copilot has then suggested a function definition](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/copilot-comment-prompt-function-definition.png)  
*Fig. A function definition suggested by Copilot for the function described in our comment*

![A comment in a Python file describing a function and the function definition itself followed by a suggestion from Copilot for the body of the function](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/copilot-comment-prompt-full-function.png)  
*Fig. A function body suggested by Copilot for the function described in our comment*

### Asking in a chat

> Copilot has a chat feature where you can write out questions or code prompts to Copilot, similarly to how we've interacted with ChatGPT for code. We'll see how we can use it to create a function, walk us through how the function works, and help us test it.

Reviewer: - voicing consistancy
```suggestion
Copilot has a chat feature where we can write out questions or code prompts to Copilot, similarly to how we've interacted with ChatGPT for code. We'll see how we can use it to create a function, walk us through how the function works, and help us test it.
```

#### Starting a chat

There are 2 ways we can interact with the Copilot chat:

1. Through inline chat. We can right click inside a file then select "Copilot > Start Inline Chat" to open a chat box at the location we clicked. `⌘I` (`CMD + i`) accomplishes the same thing at the current cursor location. 

>    - Note that in the second image below, Copilot itself displays a warning that generated code may be inaccurate – which is a nice reminder for us to carefully review what it presents!   

Reviewer: - em-dash, which allows removal of the linking "which is"
```suggestion
   - Note that in the second image below, Copilot itself displays a warning that generated code may be inaccurate—a nice reminder for us to carefully review what it presents!   
```

   ![A menu in VS Code that shows the Copilot options and where to open the inline chat](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/vscode-open-inline-chat-from-menu.png)  
   *Fig. The right-click menu in VS Code showing the Copilot options*

   ![A blank Python file with an empty inline Copilot chat showing](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/vscode-empty-inline-chat.png)  

>    *Fig. A blank Python file with an empty inline Copilot chat showing*

Reviewer: - observe the copilot warning in the screenshot description and caption
```suggestion
   ![A blank Python file with an empty inline Copilot chat showing. A warning is displayed that generated code may be incorrect.](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/vscode-empty-inline-chat.png)  
   *Fig. A blank Python file with an empty inline Copilot chat showing. Note the warning that generated code may be incorrect.*
```

To see all of the suggestions from Copilot next to each other for comparison, we can use the shortcut `⌃Enter` (`CTRL + Enter`). This will open a new tab that Copilot will fill with suggestions, along with "Accept Solution" buttons above each suggestion that we can use to bring a specific suggestion back to our code file.

![VS Code with 2 tabs open, a Python file, and a window of suggestions from Copilot](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/copilot-multiple-suggestions-new-tab.png)  
*Fig. Copilot's suggestions opened in a new tab*

## Other uses for Copilot Chat

Just like we saw with ChatGPT, conversations can be guided by providing more context and asking further questions as needed until we reach a satisfying answer. We might start the conversation with a fairly open-ended prompt, such as

> Can you explain this code line by line?

or

> Please help me generate test cases for the selected code, focusing on edge cases.

and through additional prompts and responses, we can tune the conversation to our specific needs. 

### !callout-info
## Copilot limitations

> Copilot does have limitations and a knowledge cut off like ChatGPT, so languages or syntax that are very new may not be available in suggestions or Copilot may not have very useful results. However, when it comes to commonly used libraries and modules, Copilot is great at surfacing and explaining functions or syntax without having to leave our IDE.

Reviewer: - comma for clarity
```suggestion
Copilot does have limitations and a knowledge cut off like ChatGPT, so languages or syntax that are very new may not be available in suggestions, or Copilot may not have very useful results. However, when it comes to commonly used libraries and modules, Copilot is great at surfacing and explaining functions or syntax without having to leave our IDE.
```

### !end-callout  

> In addition to writing out prompts, Copilot chat has a few handy shortcuts for common actions. We can also use Copilot to help summarize code changes for our commit messages!

Reviewer: - on re-reading, I think going more strongly with "even" gives more punch
```suggestion
In addition to writing out prompts, Copilot chat has a few handy shortcuts for common actions. We can even use Copilot to help summarize code changes for our commit messages!
```

| /tests | Generate unit tests for the selected code. If a test file doesn't exist already, this will create a new file you can review and modify. |

![Copilot's inline chat with a `/` entered and showing a dropdown of shortcut options](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/inline-chat-shortcut-dropdown.png)  
*Fig. Shortcut options showing on an inline chat after entering `/`*

### Commit Messages

Copilot can take some of the tedium out of writing commit messages when using the integrated Source Control tools in VS Code! With the Copilot extension installed, the text box where we write our commit message now has a button to the right with a sparkles icon—hover over it and we'll see a message "Generate Commit Message with Copilot". When clicked, Copilot will generate a summary based on the changed files that we can review and update as needed to fit our own or our team's standards.

![Close up view of the source control tab of VS Code with the Copilot commit message button circled in red](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/vscode-source-control-copilot-button.png)  
*Fig. VS Code's Source Control tab with the Copilot commit message button circled*

## Summary

> This has been a dash through the Copilot UI, focusing mostly on how we can generate and work with code suggestions and use the chat to our benefit. The biggest takeaway is that, like so much in coding, there are multiple ways we can perform most actions, and we need to explore and try things out to see what fits best with our workflow. If you're still a little unsure how or where you might apply Copilot, in our next lesson, we'll use a familiar project as a practical example for generating new code and refactoring existing code with Copilot.

Reviewer: - split the "coming up" portion into its own paragraph
- rephrase a little to avoid "you"
```suggestion
This has been a dash through the Copilot UI, focusing mostly on how we can generate and work with code suggestions and use the chat to our benefit. The biggest takeaway is that, like so much in coding, there are multiple ways we can perform most actions, and we need to explore and try things out to see what fits best with our workflow.

Even after looking at some potential ways to interact with Copilot, it might still feel unclear how or where Copilot can help us in our daily coding work. In our next lesson, we'll use a familiar project as a practical example for generating new code and refactoring existing code with Copilot.
```

## Check for Understanding

> <!-- Question 1 -->

Reviewer: Feel free to cut the question # comments. If we re-order the questions at some point, we don't need to worry about re-numbering them.

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: ordering
* id: 1ede5119-c503-4aa5-8833-bd39472ed25b

> * title: Ordering Copilot Shortcuts

Reviewer: Typically, we don't give individual questions titles. Just re-use the name of the lesson (they'll still appear with individual numbers).
```suggestion
* title: Copilot Interface & Shortcuts
```

##### !question
Order the shortcuts so that they match the order of the actions listed below:

1. Open the inline chat
2. View the next suggestion
3. View the previous suggestion
4. Accept a code suggestion
##### !end-question

##### !answer
1. `⌘I` (`CMD + i`)
2. `⌥]` (`OPTION + ]`)
3. `⌥[` (`OPTION + [`)
4. `Tab`
##### !end-answer

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- Question 2 -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: checkbox
* id: 4b5135e4-1435-46ad-b010-fafef36c26fc

> * title: Copilot's Limitations

Reviewer: - avoid unique title
```suggestion
* title: Copilot Interface & Shortcuts
```

##### !question
Select the actions below that Copilot would have trouble performing. 
##### !end-question

##### !hint
Consider how novel some of the technologies are. 
##### !end-hint

##### !options
a| Surfacing syntax in well-used libraries
b| Explaining functions or classes line by line
c| Writing test cases for a brand new testing library
d| Adding documentation to a function or class
e| Suggesting code in a language released this year
##### !end-options

##### !answer
c|
e|
##### !end-answer

##### !explanation
Both of the following:

- Writing test cases for a brand new testing library
- Suggesting code in a language released this year

> 

Reviewer: - explicit break since explanations otherwise squash spaces
```suggestion

<br />

```

![Close up view of the source control tab of VS Code with the Copilot commit message button circled in red](assets/copilot-interface-shortcuts/vscode-source-control-copilot-button.png)  
*Fig. VS Code's Source Control tab with the Copilot commit message button circled*

## Summary

This has been a dash through the Copilot UI, focusing mostly on how we can generate and work with code suggestions and use the chat to our benefit. The biggest takeaway is that, like so much in coding, there are multiple ways we can perform most actions, and we need to explore and try things out to see what fits best with our workflow.

Even after looking at some potential ways to interact with Copilot, it might still feel unclear how or where Copilot can help us in our daily coding work. In our next lesson, we'll use a familiar project as a practical example for generating new code and refactoring existing code with Copilot.

## Check for Understanding

> <!-- Question 1 -->

Author: Remove question numbering comments

```suggestion
```

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
### !challenge
* type: ordering
* id: 1ede5119-c503-4aa5-8833-bd39472ed25b
* title: Copilot Interface & Shortcuts

##### !question
Order the shortcuts so that they match the order of the actions listed below:

1. Open the inline chat
2. View the next suggestion
3. View the previous suggestion
4. Accept a code suggestion
##### !end-question

##### !answer
1. `⌘I` (`CMD + i`)
2. `⌥]` (`OPTION + ]`)
3. `⌥[` (`OPTION + [`)
4. `Tab`
##### !end-answer

### !end-challenge
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

> <!-- Question 2 -->

Author: Remove question numbering comments
```suggestion
```
